Shakespeare's father, while an alderman at Stratford, appears to have
been unable to write his name, but as at that time nine men out of
ten were content to make their mark for a signature, the fact is not
specially to his discredit.

The traditions and other sources of information about the occupation
of Shakespeare's father differ. He is described as a butcher, a
woolstapler, and a glover, and it is not impossible that he may have
been all of these simultaneously or at different times, or that if
he could not properly be called any one of them, the nature of his
occupation was such as to make it easy to understand how the various
traditions sprang up. He was a landed proprietor and cultivator of his
own land even before his marriage, and he received with his wife, who
was Mary Arden, daughter of a country gentleman, the estate of Asbies,
56 acres in extent. William was the third child. The two older than he
were daughters, and both probably died in infancy. After him was born
three sons and a daughter. For ten or twelve years at least, after
Shakespeare's birth his father continued to be in easy circumstances. In
the year 1568 he was the high bailiff or chief magistrate of Stratford,
and for many years afterwards he held the position of alderman as he
had done for three years before. To the completion of his tenth year,
therefore, it is natural to suppose that William Shakespeare would get
the best education that Stratford could afford. The free school of the
town was open to all boys and like all the grammar-schools of that time,
was under the direction of men who, as graduates of the universities,
were qualified to diffuse that sound scholarship which was once the
boast of England. There is no record of Shakespeare's having been at
this school, but there can be no rational doubt that he was educated
there. His father could not have procured for him a better education
anywhere. To those who have studied Shakespeare's works without being
influenced by the old traditional theory that he had received a very
narrow education, they abound with evidences that he must have been
solidly grounded in the learning, properly so called, was taught in the
grammar schools.